# Beam Lens

*(Not to be confused with Beam Origin or Beam Passage)*

[Aside block] Beam Lens
-----------------------

### Transparency

Yes

### Luminance

No

### Hardness

?

### Blast Resistance

6000.0

### Tool

Any Pickaxe

### Renewable

No

### Stackable

Yes (64)

### Flammable

No

### Compostable

No

### ID

mud\_tower\_beam\_relay  
mud\_tower\_beam\_lens\_supports

Beam Lenses ingame

Beam Lenses redirecting the beam

**Beam Lenses** are special, rotatable puzzle blocks that are found in the Sludgeon Tower of the Sludgeon. They have a normal variant and a **Support** variant. They are used to redirect the beam generated by the Beam Origin in order to solve the beam puzzle and enter the underground areas of the structure.

Contents
--------

* 1 Puzzle
* 2 Sounds
* 3 History

Puzzle
--------

Beam Lenses generate, usually with Supports, in specific arrangements throughout the Sludgeon Tower. They are always found oriented downwards by default, but can be reoriented in any of the six different directions by right-clicking them. The order in which they are reoriented when clicked is as follows: Down -> Up -> North -> South -> West -> East.

When the Beam Origin at the top of the tower is activated, it will generate a green shader beam directly downwards, passing through Energy Barriers and a Beam Passage and into the first Beam Lens in the puzzle. When a normal lens receives the beam as an input from any direction, it will absorb the beam, reset its travel distance, and output the beam in the direction the lens is currently facing.

Beam Lens Supports are different in that they do not direct or reset the beam, but do allow it to pass through the block from any direction. This is different from Beam Passages, which only allow it to pass from two directions.

The beam must be directed through several Beam Lens and Passages until it reaches the Dungeon Door at the base of the tower, whereupon the door will upon and allow access to the Labyrinthine Vaults of the Sludgeon.

Sounds
--------

| Sound | Subtitles | Source | Description | ID |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| https://the-betweenlands.fandom.com/wiki/File:Beam\_switch.ogg | Beam switches | Blocks | Plays when the Beam Lens is reoriented | beam\_switch |

History
---------

* Beta 3.5.0: Introduced.