# Beam Passage

*(Not to be confused with Beam Origin, Beam Lens, or Beam Lens Support)*

[Aside block] Beam Passage
--------------------------

### Transparency

Yes

### Luminance

No

### Hardness

?

### Blast Resistance

6000.0

### Tool

Any Pickaxe

### Renewable

No

### Stackable

Yes (64)

### Flammable

No

### Compostable

No

### ID

mud\_tower  
\_beam\_tube

A Beam Passage ingame

**Beam Passages** are special, rotatable puzzle blocks that are found in the Sludgeon Tower of the Sludgeon. They are used to transmit the beam generated by the Beam Origin through different floors of the tower in order to solve the beam puzzle and enter the underground areas of the structure.

Contents
--------

* 1 Puzzle
* 2 History

Puzzle
--------

Beam Passages generate in specific arrangements throughout the Sludgeon Tower. They are always found oriented vertically with their lens facing Up and Down, and unlike Beam Lenses they cannot be reoriented by right-clicking. They can however be manually oriented horizontally, facing either North and South or East and West.

When the Beam Origin at the top of the tower is activated, it will generate a green shader beam directly downwards, passing through the first Beam Passage in the puzzle. When a passage receives the beam from one of the two directions its "lens" is facing, it will allow the beam to pass through it and continue out from the other "lens" side. If the beam is not received from one of these directions, the passage will act as a solid block and cause the beam to dissipate upon contact. This is different from a Beam Lens Support, which allows the beam to pass through from any direction.

The beam must be directed through several Beam Passages and Lens until it reaches the Dungeon Door at the base of the tower, whereupon the door will upon and allow access to the Labyrinthine Vaults of the Sludgeon.

History
---------

* Beta 3.5.0: Introduced.